Add docs for CA1871 and CA2264 (#39661)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2264.md

---
title: "CA2264: Do not pass a non-nullable value to 'ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull'"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2264 - Do not pass a non-nullable value to 'ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull'"
ms.date: 02/25/2024
f1_keywords:
  - CA2264
helpviewer_keywords:
  - CA2264
dev_langs:
  - CSharp

>   - VB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
# CA2264: Do not pass a non-nullable value to 'ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull'

| Property                            | Value                                                                   |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2264                                                                  |
| **Title**                           | Do not pass a non-nullable value to 'ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull' |
| **Category**                        | [Usage](usage-warnings.md)                                              |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                                                            |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 9**    | As warning                                                              |

## Cause

> When a value is passed to a call to `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` which is known to never be null, an exception is never thrown, making the statement a no-op.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a value that's known to never be null is passed to `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull()`, an exception is never thrown, making the statement a no-op.
```

## Rule description

> `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` throws when the passed argument is `null`. Certain constructs like non-nullable structs (except for <xref:System.Nullable%601>), 'nameof()' and 'new' expressions are known to never be null, so `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` will never throw.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` throws when the passed argument is `null`. Certain constructs like non-nullable structs (except for <xref:System.Nullable%601>), 'nameof()' expressions, and 'new' expressions are known to never be null, so `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` will never throw.
```

> In the case of a struct, since `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` accepts an `object?`, the struct is boxed, causing an additional performance penalty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of a struct, since `ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull` accepts an `object?`, the struct is boxed, which causes an additional performance penalty.
```
